# Homework #4 

## 1. Do “cd ~”, then do “mkdir vi_homework”, then do “cd vi_homework”, then do “wget http://kyungbaekkim.jnu.ac.kr/data/3lpigs.txt” (your PC needs to connect to Internet before doing this), then do “cp 3lpigs.txt 3lpigs_edit.txt”, then do “wc 3lpigs_edit.txt” 

- Take a screenshot 
- What is the result of the command “wc”? Explain the result. (use “man wc” to understand the usage of “wc”) 

## 2. Do “vi 3lpigs_edit.txt”, then do “:3” in vi, then press “O”, then type “This is the test.”, then press ESC key, then do “:3,10w tmpstory” in vi, then do “:q!” in vi, then do “clear”, then do “cat tmpstory”, then do “head 3lpigs_edit.txt” 

* Take a screen shot
* Which file has the sentence “This is the test.”? Why? 

## 3. Do “vi tmpstory”, then press “j” one time, then press “J” (capital letter of j), then press “yy” (press “y” two times), then press “G” (capital letter of g), then press “4p” (press 4 then press p), then press “dd” (press “d” two times), then do “:wq” in vi, then do “clear”, then “cat tmpstory”

* Take a screen shot 
* What is “yy”, “p”, “dd” for in vi? 

## 4. Do “vi tmpstory”, then do “/pigs” in vi, then press “n” for five times, then do “:1,$s/pigs/lambs/g” in vi, then press “ZZ”, then do “clear”, then do “cat tmpstory” 

* Take a screen shot 
* What is the command “:1,$s/pigs/lambs/g” for? 

# PROBLEM 

## 1. Let’s assume that we have a file with the following contents. 

```markdown
abcdefg abcdefg 12345 12345
abcdefg abcdefg 12345 12345
abcdefg abcdefg 12345 12345
abcdefg abcdefg 12345 12345
abcdefg abcdefg 12345 12345
abcdefg abcdefg 12345 12345 
```

Answer the following questions related to vi command. 

(1) What is the line mode command for changing every “g” to “G”

(2) What is the line mode command for changing every “5” of line 3-5 to “x” 

(3) What is the line mode command for changing the first “a” of the first line to “A” 

(4) Let’s assume that your prompt locates on the third line in command mode. What is the command for deleting the 3,4,5 lines? 

(5) Let’s assume that your prompt locates on the third line in command mode. What is the command for deleting the last line? (you need to move the cursor) 

(6) Let’s assume that your prompt locates on the third line in command mode. What is the command for deleting the 3 ~ last lines without using any number key? 

(7) Let’s assume that your prompt locates on the last line in command mode. What is the command for adding the results of “ls -l" command? 

## 2. 

(1) Create a file “diary.txt” with following content (9 lines) by using vi This is the first paragraph, except the date. Wednesday January 14th None of the teechers at school have noticed that I am an intellectual. They will be sorry when I am famouse. There is a new girl in our class. She sits nixt to me in Geography Geography. Time flies like an arrow but fruit flies like a banana. She is all right. Her name is Pandora, but she likes being called "Box". Don't ask me why. I might fall in love with her. It's time I fell in love, after all I am 13 3/4 years old. 

(2) Go to the end of the document and type in the following paragraph (single line): This is the second paragraph. 

```markdown
Joined the library. Got Care of the Skin, Origin of the Species, and a book by a woman my mother is always going on about. It is called Pride and Prejudice, by a woman called Jane Austen. I could tell the librarian was impressed. Perhaps she is an intellectual like me. She didn't look at my spot, so perhaps it is getting smaller. 
```

(3) Correct the three spelling errors in the first three lines of the first paragraph and remove the extra “Geography” in the 3rd line of the first paragraph. 

(4) Add the word “About time!” to the end of the second paragraph. 

(5) Delete the sentence “Time flies like an arrow but fruit flies like a banana.”, and make the first paragraph into a single line. 

(6) Replace all occurrences of “is” with “was”. 

(7) Swap the two paragraph. 

(8) Save the file. 

(9) Save the first line (date) and the second paragraph as “diary1.txt”, and quit vi. - The first line : Wednesday ~~ - The second paragraph : None of the teachers ~~~ 

(10) Take a screenshot of results of “cat diary.txt” and “cat diary1.txt” 